# Contributing to Dash Loading Spinners

This project was generated by the [dash-component-boilerplate](https://github.com/plotly/dash-component-boilerplate). If you would like to get involved, then please feel free to reach out and let me know.

I built this library in my spare time, so all suggestions for improvement and issues reporting are gratefully received.

## Reporting issues

The [issue tracker](https://github.com/glsdown/dash-loading-spinners/issues) is the preferred channel for bug reports, feature requests and submitting pull requests, but please do not derail or troll issues. Keep the discussion on topic and respect the opinions of others.

### Bug reports

A bug is a demonstrable problem that is caused by the code in the repository. Good bug reports are extremely helpful, so thanks!

Guidelines for bug reports:

- Use the GitHub issue search — check if the issue has already been reported.
- Check if the issue has been fixed — try to reproduce it using the latest main or development branch in the repository.
- Isolate the problem — ideally create a minimal working example that demonstrates the issue.

A good bug report shouldn't leave others needing to chase you up for more information. Please try to be as detailed as possible in your report. What is your environment? Which versions of dash and dash-loading-spinners do you have installed? What steps will reproduce the issue? What browser(s) and OS experience the problem? Do other browsers show the bug differently? What would you expect to be the outcome? All these details will help us to fix any potential bugs. We have a bug report template you can use to ensure you don't miss out any of these details when filing a new bug report.

### Feature requests

Feature requests are welcome. But take a moment to find out whether your idea fits with the scope and aims of the project. It's up to you to make a strong case to convince the project's developers of the merits of this feature. Please provide as much detail and context as possible. We have a feature request template you can use when filing a new feature request.

### Pull requests

Good pull requests - patches, improvements, new features - are a fantastic help. They should remain focused in scope and avoid containing unrelated commits.

Please ask first before embarking on any significant pull request (e.g. implementing features, refactoring code, porting to a different language), otherwise you risk spending a lot of time working on something that the project's developers might not want to merge into the project.

Please adhere to the coding guidelines used throughout the project (indentation, accurate comments, etc.) and any other requirements (such as test coverage).

Adhering to the following process is the best way to get your work included in the project:

1. [Fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) the project, clone your fork, and configure the remotes:
```
# Clone your fork of the repo into the current directory
git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/dash-loading-spinners.git
# Navigate to the newly cloned directory
cd dash-loading-spinners
# Assign the original repo to a remote called "upstream"
git remote add upstream https://github.com/glsdown/dash-loading-spinners.git
```

2. If you cloned a while ago, get the latest changes from upstream:
```
git checkout main
git pull upstream main
```

3. Create a new topic branch (off the main project development branch) to contain your feature, change, or fix:
```
git checkout -b <topic-branch-name>
```

4. Commit your changes in logical chunks. Please try to keep the number of commits to a minimum, with clear descriptions in each one. Use Git's [interactive rebase](https://help.github.com/articles/about-git-rebase/) feature to tidy up your commits before making them public.

5. Locally merge (or rebase) the upstream development branch into your topic branch:
```
git pull [--rebase] upstream main
```
6. Push your topic branch up to your fork:
```
git push origin <topic-branch-name>
```
7. Open a Pull Request with a clear title and description against the main branch.

IMPORTANT: By submitting a patch, you agree to allow the project owners to license your work under the terms of the current license.

## Code guidelines

### Python

We use nox to test and line Python code.
```
pip install nox
```

Code is linted using black, flake8, and isort. Run the linters with
```
nox -s lint
```

Many formatting issues can be fixed automatically by black and isort. Run them with
```
nox -s format
```

Finally you can run the Python tests locally for a particular version of Python with
```
nox -s test-3.9
```

and similarly for other versions.

## JS

Prettier to format JavaScript code as configured in `.prettierrc`. You can lint your code with
```
npm run lint
```
and format it automatically with
```
npm run format
```

## Building dash-loading-spinners locally

To build _dash-loading-spinners_ locally, first install the Python development dependencies
```
python -m pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
```

Then install JavaScript dependencies
```
npm install
```

You can now build Python, R and Julia packages with
```
npm run build
```

To remove all created files, you can run
```
invoke clean 
```